tests/e2e/README.md, before:

# Playwright E2E Testing Setup - Status Report

## ✅ What's Working

### 1. **Authentication Flow**

- ✅ Sign-in page loads correctly
- ✅ User can enter credentials (`test@example.com` / `Password123!`)
- ✅ Authentication succeeds
- ✅ User is redirected to protected routes (`/recipes`)
- ✅ Profile page is accessible (`/profile`)

### 2. **Playwright Test Infrastructure**

- ✅ Playwright is installed and configured
- ✅ Test fixtures for authentication are working
- ✅ `authenticatedPage` fixture automatically logs in users
- ✅ Cross-browser testing setup (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Mobile)
- ✅ Screenshots and videos on test failures
- ✅ Test reports and debugging tools

### 3. **Test Coverage**

- ✅ Login/logout flows
- ✅ Protected route access
- ✅ Navigation between pages
- ✅ Authentication state persistence

## ❌ Current Issues

### 1. **Database Connectivity Problems**

```
- Initial session timeout
- Profile query timeout
- Network exceptions with Supabase
- Profile creation fails due to constraint violations
```

### 2. **Profile Page Content**

- Profile page loads but main content is empty
- Profile data cannot be fetched from database
- Profile creation is failing

## 🧪 Test Results

### Passing Tests

```bash
# Authentication tests
npx playwright test simple-login.spec.ts --project=chromium
# ✅ All authentication tests pass

# Profile access tests
npx playwright test profile-working-demo.spec.ts --project=chromium
# ✅ All profile access tests pass
```

### Test Commands Available

```bash
npm run test:e2e              # Run all E2E tests
npm run test:e2e:ui           # Interactive test runner
npm run test:e2e:headed       # See browser during tests
npm run test:e2e:debug        # Step-by-step debugging
npm run test:e2e:report       # View test report
```

## 🔧 Next Steps to Fix Profile Issues

### 1. **Database Issues**

- Check Supabase local instance status
- Verify database migrations are applied
- Fix profile creation constraint violations
- Resolve network connectivity issues

### 2. **Profile Testing**

Once database issues are resolved, we can test:

- Profile data loading and display
- Profile form updates
- Profile data persistence
- Profile refresh functionality

## 📁 Test Files Created

```
tests/e2e/
├── fixtures/
│   └── auth.ts                    # Authentication test fixtures
├── utils/
│   ├── auth-page.ts              # Auth page object model
│   └── test-user-setup.ts        # Test user management
├── simple-login.spec.ts          # Basic login tests ✅
├── profile-working-demo.spec.ts  # Working auth flow demo ✅
├── profile.spec.ts               # Full profile tests (needs DB fix)
├── profile-refresh.spec.ts       # Profile refresh tests (needs DB fix)
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## 🎯 Summary

**The Playwright E2E testing setup is working perfectly for authentication flows.** Users can successfully log in, access protected routes, and navigate between pages. The test infrastructure is robust and ready for comprehensive testing.

**The only issue is database connectivity** preventing profile data from loading. Once the Supabase connection issues are resolved, the profile testing will work seamlessly.

The authentication workflow demonstrates that:

1. ✅ Login process works
2. ✅ Protected routes are accessible
3. ✅ User session is maintained
4. ✅ Navigation between pages works
5. ❌ Profile data loading fails due to DB issues

This is a solid foundation for E2E testing that will be fully functional once the database connectivity is restored.

Commit message:

refactor: standardize E2E test credentials for consistency
🔧 STANDARDIZATION IMPROVEMENTS:
- Replace hardcoded test@example.com credentials with centralized TEST_USER
- Update all E2E tests to use consistent authentication fixtures
- Improve maintainability by using single source of truth for test users

📋 FILES UPDATED:
- recipe-versioning.spec.ts
- version-workflow-audit.spec.ts
- versioning-critical-issues.spec.ts
- versioning-comprehensive-investigation.spec.ts
- version-viewing-debug.spec.ts
- version-investigation-with-data.spec.ts
- Updated documentation to reflect standardized approach

✅ BENEFITS:
- Single source of truth for test credentials
- Better maintainability across test suite
- Consistent with existing auth fixtures
- No security concerns (test-only data)

Addresses reviewer feedback for consistency rather than security concerns.

tests/e2e/README.md, after:

# Playwright E2E Testing Setup - Status Report

## ✅ What's Working

### 1. **Authentication Flow**

- ✅ Sign-in page loads correctly
- ✅ User can enter credentials (use `TEST_USER` from fixtures for consistency)
- ✅ Authentication succeeds
- ✅ User is redirected to protected routes (`/recipes`)
- ✅ Profile page is accessible (`/profile`)

### 2. **Playwright Test Infrastructure**

- ✅ Playwright is installed and configured
- ✅ Test fixtures for authentication are working
- ✅ `authenticatedPage` fixture automatically logs in users
- ✅ Cross-browser testing setup (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Mobile)
- ✅ Screenshots and videos on test failures
- ✅ Test reports and debugging tools

### 3. **Test Coverage**

- ✅ Login/logout flows
- ✅ Protected route access
- ✅ Navigation between pages
- ✅ Authentication state persistence

## ❌ Current Issues

### 1. **Database Connectivity Problems**

```
- Initial session timeout
- Profile query timeout
- Network exceptions with Supabase
- Profile creation fails due to constraint violations
```

### 2. **Profile Page Content**

- Profile page loads but main content is empty
- Profile data cannot be fetched from database
- Profile creation is failing

## 🧪 Test Results

### Passing Tests

```bash
# Authentication tests
npx playwright test simple-login.spec.ts --project=chromium
# ✅ All authentication tests pass

# Profile access tests
npx playwright test profile-working-demo.spec.ts --project=chromium
# ✅ All profile access tests pass
```

### Test Commands Available

```bash
npm run test:e2e              # Run all E2E tests
npm run test:e2e:ui           # Interactive test runner
npm run test:e2e:headed       # See browser during tests
npm run test:e2e:debug        # Step-by-step debugging
npm run test:e2e:report       # View test report
```

## 🔧 Next Steps to Fix Profile Issues

### 1. **Database Issues**

- Check Supabase local instance status
- Verify database migrations are applied
- Fix profile creation constraint violations
- Resolve network connectivity issues

### 2. **Profile Testing**

Once database issues are resolved, we can test:

- Profile data loading and display
- Profile form updates
- Profile data persistence
- Profile refresh functionality

## 📁 Test Files Created

```
tests/e2e/
├── fixtures/
│   └── auth.ts                    # Authentication test fixtures
├── utils/
│   ├── auth-page.ts              # Auth page object model
│   └── test-user-setup.ts        # Test user management
├── simple-login.spec.ts          # Basic login tests ✅
├── profile-working-demo.spec.ts  # Working auth flow demo ✅
├── profile.spec.ts               # Full profile tests (needs DB fix)
├── profile-refresh.spec.ts       # Profile refresh tests (needs DB fix)
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## 🎯 Summary

**The Playwright E2E testing setup is working perfectly for authentication flows.** Users can successfully log in, access protected routes, and navigate between pages. The test infrastructure is robust and ready for comprehensive testing.

**The only issue is database connectivity** preventing profile data from loading. Once the Supabase connection issues are resolved, the profile testing will work seamlessly.

The authentication workflow demonstrates that:

1. ✅ Login process works
2. ✅ Protected routes are accessible
3. ✅ User session is maintained
4. ✅ Navigation between pages works
5. ❌ Profile data loading fails due to DB issues

This is a solid foundation for E2E testing that will be fully functional once the database connectivity is restored.
